README.md, before:

# 🧪 Web API made with .NET 8 (LTS) and ASP.NET Core

## Status

[![.NET CI](https://github.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=nanotaboada_Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=nanotaboada_Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi)
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/_apis/build/status%2FDotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/_build/latest?definitionId=14&branchName=master)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/ac7b7e22f1cd4d9d9233b36982b0d6a9)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/graph/badge.svg?token=hgJc1rStJ9)](https://codecov.io/gh/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi)
[![codebeat badge](https://codebeat.co/badges/6292db95-5021-4154-8438-be27d15c14c0)](https://codebeat.co/projects/github-com-nanotaboada-dotnet-samples-aspnetcore-webapi-master)

## About

Proof of Concept for a Web API made with [.NET 8](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/whats-new/dotnet-8) (LTS) and [ASP.NET Core](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-8.0?view=aspnetcore-8.0).

## Structure

![Structure](/assets/images/Structure.svg)

_Figure: Simplified, conceptual project structure and main application flow. Not all dependencies are shown._

## Start

```console
dotnet watch run --project src/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi.csproj
```

## Documentation

```console
https://localhost:9000/swagger/index.html
```

![API Documentation](/assets/images/Swagger.png)

## Credits

The solution has been coded using [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [C# Dev Kit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csdevkit) extension.

## Terms

All trademarks, registered trademarks, service marks, product names, company names, or logos mentioned on this repository are the property of their respective owners. All usage of such terms herein is for identification purposes only and constitutes neither an endorsement nor a recommendation of those items. Furthermore, the use of such terms is intended to be for educational and informational purposes only.

Commit message:

feat: add multi-stage Dockerfile for building and running app

README.md, after:

# 🧪 Web API made with .NET 8 (LTS) and ASP.NET Core

## Status

[![.NET CI](https://github.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=nanotaboada_Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=nanotaboada_Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi)
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/_apis/build/status%2FDotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/_build/latest?definitionId=14&branchName=master)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/ac7b7e22f1cd4d9d9233b36982b0d6a9)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/graph/badge.svg?token=hgJc1rStJ9)](https://codecov.io/gh/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/nanotaboada/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi)
[![codebeat badge](https://codebeat.co/badges/6292db95-5021-4154-8438-be27d15c14c0)](https://codebeat.co/projects/github-com-nanotaboada-dotnet-samples-aspnetcore-webapi-master)

## About

Proof of Concept for a Web API made with [.NET 8](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/whats-new/dotnet-8) (LTS) and [ASP.NET Core](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-8.0?view=aspnetcore-8.0).

## Structure

![Structure](/assets/images/Structure.svg)

_Figure: Simplified, conceptual project structure and main application flow. Not all dependencies are shown._

## Start

```console
dotnet watch run --project src/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi/Dotnet.Samples.AspNetCore.WebApi.csproj
```

## Documentation (Development-only)

```console
https://localhost:9000/swagger/index.html
```

![API Documentation](/assets/images/Swagger.png)

## Container

This project includes a multi-stage `Dockerfile` for local development and production builds.

### Build the image

```bash
docker build -t aspnetcore-app .
```

### Run the container

```bash
docker run -p 9000:9000 aspnetcore-app

## Credits

The solution has been coded using [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [C# Dev Kit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csdevkit) extension.

## Terms

All trademarks, registered trademarks, service marks, product names, company names, or logos mentioned on this repository are the property of their respective owners. All usage of such terms herein is for identification purposes only and constitutes neither an endorsement nor a recommendation of those items. Furthermore, the use of such terms is intended to be for educational and informational purposes only.
